So those are your different options,
and it's important to know what
you're using and when you're using it and
why you're using it.
So it's worth just taking a pause
before you jump into prototyping.
I think a lot of people jump into
prototyping maybe a bit too soon.
A little bit of upfront planning
will help ensure that your time is
used efficiently when you do prototype.
So one of the things that I like to do
is a kind of before prototyping step,
although you could argue it's a type of
prototype in its own right, is user flows.
I don't know whether this is anything
anybody has had a play with,
but I find it really great to just
kind of plan out how the different
pages will work and what the flow
through the application will be.
For a start, I'm particularly seeking to
answer what the entry points into the app,
how people might arrive in it.
Is it always through a login?
And do they always land at the same
dashboard, or could they come in for
a deep link?
All of those kinds of things are quite
useful to plan out beforehand.
Then obviously, there's the key actions
and steps, what potential steps a user
might go through to reach the different
goals that you've got on the site.
Whether people are gonna be
skipping around the site and a lot.
Oftentimes I find with apps that they're
not very streamlined in that way.
So to complete an overall goal, they have
to go into one section, then come out of
that section and go into another section,
and there's no nice flow through it.
So planning all of that out
beforehand helps me at least.
Then there's decision points so
identifying critical decision
moments in the flow.
So for example, with an e-commerce site,
there is obviously the decision of
whether to add something to basket.
But there's also then the decision of
whether to actually proceed through
checkout cuz a lot of people add things
to a basket and then abandon it.
So knowing when those key moments
are in the app often is important.
And error handling and feedback, right?
So I try and think through,
where are things likely to go wrong.
How are they likely to go wrong and
how am I gonna respond to that?
So user flow is basically
a kind of series of individual
screens that kind of show the flow
through the application and
branching points where certain
decisions have been made, etc.
So yeah, I'm a fan of those.
And then finally,
the other thing that I do look at
with user flows is alternate paths.
So sometimes people can come at
a piece of functionality from
different directions and
will they have the relevant context, etc.
So I kind of fiddle around with that
a little bit doesn't need to be perfect,
but just to kind of get an initial
thinking before I go too far into it.
Once I've got that, then I've
really it's a matter of deciding on
the fidelity of the prototype
that I need to create.
And that kind of depends very
much on where I am in the process
of the application.
Because I don't tend to just
create one prototype when I'm
building out an app I potentially
could make many prototypes.
And I know that sounds
a little bit overkill but
sometimes it's just easier to
do it that way and so I do it.
So for example, you might be doing
ideation right at the very beginning.
So you might be running a workshop
where you've got stakeholders in and
you're kind of trying to
create lots of ideas.
Hey, wouldn't it be cool if we did this or
that and the other?
And that's where I see paper
prototypes as being really valuable.
It's just kinda sketching
out ideas in those meetings.
I know a lot of people are huge
fans of paper prototyping.
And they take on those paper
prototyping and they test with them.
And to me that feels like madness
cuz they're very low fidelity.
And so, it's quite hard for
users to picture what's going on, but
also paper prototypes on easy to edit and
change and fiddle around with.
So I see the main version for
me personally,
paper prototypes are great for chucking
out lots of ideas to begin with and
then I kinda lose interest
in them after that.
So when we start narrowing down our ideas
to something that's a bit more solid.
Then I'll increase
the fidelity a little bit and
I'll jump into some greyscale prototyping.
So where I'm not really worrying too much
about the design but I'm trying to get
the main kind of elements in place and how
it all flows together and works together.
And that's usually tangible enough to do
a little bit more kind of development and
refine it, test with it and
explore it a bit more.
So I spend quite a long time in
greyscale prototyping generally.
Then as I start to iterate on things and
it's beginning to come together and
I've got a stronger direction then I
start to create clickable prototypes.
Sometimes this can still
be the greyscales, right?
So I'm just kind of joining those together
and making them click through from
one to the other because I'm beginning to
have a bit more of a strong direction.
And there tends to be more testing
that's going on at that stage.
And then when we're trying
to finalize the approach so
that the developers can go off and
do their thing and
they've got something that is
effectively a functional specification.
Cuz I'm not a fan of written
functional specifications
personally because they're
open to interpretation.
And people can disagree
over what was meant in
a written functional specification.
But a good prototype is much more concrete
and much more obvious what's gonna happen.
So at that stage, I end up with
a much more interactive, richer,
higher fidelity prototype.
Now, I'm not saying I do
all of those steps on every
single project because
there are constraints.
But pick and choose which you feel is the
most relevant to you over those journeys,
but at least having a clear idea of
where the strengths of different types
of prototyping comes in is worthwhile.
And often a kind of underappreciated
part of prototyping.
And probably,
the bit that I almost like the most out of
prototyping is engaging with
stakeholders during prototyping.
A lot of designers [LAUGH] everybody
took a note at that point say I'm not
sure I agree with that.
I'll have to write that down.
A lot of designers like to go away and
hide in the cupboard somewhere.
And at most talk to some users and
then produce the design.
But actually, I'm a huge fan of
collaborating with stakeholders to
create a prototype and
I've got several reasons for this.
One is that I think it
leads to better products.
The more perspectives
you have in something,
the better it tends to turn out.
For example,
having a developer's perspective
in prototyping is really valuable.
But even a marketer's perspective is good
or somebody with business experience,
all of these bring different perspectives
to the table that are all valid.
You just need to know how to manage those
different perspectives and balance them.
But more importantly,
it leads to faster approval.
If a stakeholder helps create a prototype,
they're much more likely to approve it,
aren't they?
Let's be honest.
How many times do you
reject your own work?
Well, unless you got
big imposter syndrome.
But, yeah, I mean most of us are more
likely to back our own work.
And taking that even further, more likely
to support it in front of other people.
So if you can get a senior executive,
for example,
involved in a limited way in
prototyping then you're golden, right?
Because that person will back it to
the hill and argue on your behalf for
it and it's much more likely to
get improved and go forward.
So of course the challenge is knowing,
well, how do you do that?
How do you get people involved without it
ending up becoming designed by committee,
which obviously nobody wants, right?
Well, I tend to run workshops,
wireframing workshops in particular.
I mean,
there are lots of ways of doing it.
This is one that kind of
works quite well for me.
So the only problem with it these days
is you have to get everybody in a room
together, which is increasingly difficult
because nobody likes to put on grown-up
clothes anymore and leave the house.
But other than that, it can be it
can be quite a good little session.
So what what do I tend to
focus on in these sessions?
Because you're only talking about few
hours maybe three hours if you're lucky,
an hour and a half if you're unlucky.
I basically tend to get them
focusing on the core journey.
Let's look at some of the key screens and
functionality that
are central to the kind of user
experience that we're creating.
If I know that there are certain
controversial screens that people
are gonna be argumentative about and
are gonna be problematic.
I sometimes include those just to, right,
let's get this out in the air
before I put any work into it.
So I don't wanna spend hours mocking up
some page that I know everybody's gonna
tear apart later.
I prefer to have that conversation up
front and then we all know where we stand.
And then sometimes I'll look at
the high effort screens, right?
So pages that need a lot of work.
And there are many different
stakeholders involved in.
Again, let's just get it all sorted out
and not do it via endless email chains
of people going, well, I'm worried
about this from a legal perspective and
just get them in a room,
get them working on it.
So what do I actually get them
doing is probably a valid question.
I'm a fan of Crazy Eights.
So I don't know whether anybody's
come across Crazy Eights.
What's so
great about Crazy Eights is it makes
people feel like they've contributed.
But actually, what they're producing is so
low phi that actually it's open
to lots of interpretation and
still gives you the freedom to do
what you wanna do as designers.
So just very broadly normally,
I'm normally a bit kinder than the most
Crazy Eight exercises and
most the kind of traditional one.
I think you take an A4 sheet of paper,
you don't have A4, what's it?
Letter, you're so imperialistic,
says the Englishman.
[LAUGH] So you take your A4 bit
of paper and you fold it so
you end up with eight boxes, like here.
I'm actually usually a bit more generous.
I usually take a flipchart piece
of paper and fold it up, so
they've got a bit more space to work with.
But basically what you ask
is you ask each team so
you split whoever's in the room
down into teams, each team and
you give him eight minutes to generate
eight ideas on a single piece of paper.
Now what I love about this exercise is
that not only are you involving them.
So that they feel they've contributed.
But you're also educating them.
You're also saying, look,
there's more than one way of doing this.
Cuz everybody gets in their head how
they think it should be done, right?
And of course, everybody's thinking
a slightly different thing.
So by making them come up
with eight ideas, right?
Of how we might do the checkout or
the homepage or the whatever it is, right?
By making them generate eight ideas,
it forces them to think outside of their,
what was in their head initially, right?
So it's really worth it
from that point of view.
Then essentially the group will pick four
of those ideas that they like the most,
and then they join up with another team.
So that's two fours, so
that you end up with eight ideas, and
you pick the best four again, and
you repeat the above steps until you've
got four ideas remaining, right?
So you end up merging team,
merging team, merging all team, and
then you end up with the four best ideas.
And again, you're ending that
exercise with four ideas,
not one that you're then forced
to go away and do as a designer.
So that's one exercise that
could be done very quickly and
tends to be quite popular and
makes people feel engaged.
It's not the only option.
Another option is to design sprint,
anybody ever done a design sprint?
Yeah, you have.
>> Kind of a little bit, yeah.
>> You've done a mini design sprint.
>> Like a practice.
>> A practice design sprint.
So just in case you don't know, let me
run through what a design sprint is.
It's a technique that was
created by Google and
involves a week of research,
prototyping and testing.
So it's an intensive week-long event and
five days.
Day one is all about understanding.
So you map what you're trying to achieve,
you choose a target audience,
that kind of stuff.
Day two is you diverge,
you sketch various solutions.
It's pretty much like we were
talking about a minute ago,
you spend a day exploring different ideas.
Day three is you converge, so
you decide on the best ideas that
were produced on the day before.
Day four, you build some kind of prototype
that represents your chosen direction.
And then day five, you test with that.
So that's the idea.
I'm not a fan, if I'm honest.
I've included it because I knew if I
didn't include it, everybody would go,
you've done a course on product design and
not mentioned design sprints.
And the design sprint community
is very pro-design sprint.
So I'll probably get in trouble again,
but you know, I'm beyond caring.
Personally, it doesn't work very well for
me.
I find it very hard to arrange.
Getting all the stakeholders
in the room for
a week is pretty hard.
Unless a mature organization with quite
a well-established culture of UX, it's
really hard to do, which is why Google
can do it because they do have that.
But if your organization doesn't,
you're gonna probably struggle.
I also just find it exhausting,
perhaps, I'm just old.
I don't know, you're young and
you're nodding that makes me feel better.
So it's really intense, both for you,
the person running it and
also for attendees.
So I'm not a fan of it from that point of
view and also it just feels rushed, right?
Design sprints leave little room to
really consider what you're doing.
And in some ways I can understand that cuz
it builds momentum and momentum's good and
all of that.
But if it leaves those
stakeholders feeling rushed,
they're more likely to push back later.
So it's not a massive win in my point of
view, I'd prefer just to spend an hour and
a half doing some initial sketches and
then kind of communicate with them
on an ongoing basis, rather than suck
a week of their time down, yeah.
>> And also it's very expensive?
>> Yeah [LAUGH] I've got
nothing to add to that.
Yes, it is.